---
layout: page
title: "Learning Python the Hard Way Lessons 0, 1 & 2"
date: 2018-02-03 14:46:00 +0300
description: I've started Learning Python the Hard Way # Add post description (optional)
img:  LPTHW-3e.jpg
---
I've combined lessons 0, 1, and 2 into a single post because I view them as a single complete lesson.

# Lesson 0: The Setup
I use Windows, and honestly if that's a problem you should probably just stop now. I do embedded system design, 
frequently for systems running Linux or some Linux derived/inspired OS, so I'm familiar and quite proficient 
with Linux but, as someone who needs remote debugging tools and the ability to support legacy hardware, Windows
is a great choice because of the support community and the wider availability of enterprise tools. However it's
largely pointless for me to walk you through the python setup here because Zed does a much better job in 
lesson 0. One thing worth noting, all the instructions say PowerShell but, besides potentially instruction 11, 
they are equally applicable to Cmd Prompt, so pick your poison.

I'll link some cheat sheets for Powershell/Command Prompt here later, and maybe even some stuff for bash on 
linux.

Zed also has you use Atom, this is because it exists for all the different systems he's addressing and will be 
consistant between them, I'm also using Atom but strongly considered just using Notepad++, do what feels righr, 
after Lesson 1, it won't matter.

# Lesson 1: A Good First Program
This is the iconic "Hello World!" program. My committed code can be found here: <insert link to LPTHW github repo>
I've added comments (which are cover in Lesson 2), to address the study drills and just generally document the 
code. Hello World is a staple of computer programming courses, I learned it in C/C++, C#, Java, and through a 
GE Predix course, featuring HTML. The only coding you're not likely to stumble across this in is assembly or an
HDL course, there you'll just blink lights, or make noise through a buzzer. The study drills introduce the 
concept of comments with the octothorpe (#), because although printing "Hello World" is great, it's not really 
coding until you can document what the heck you've done.

My Lesson 1 code can be found here: [https://github.com/skyrydberg/LPTHW/tree/master/ex1](https://github.com/skyrydberg/LPTHW/tree/master/ex1)

# Lesson 2: Comments and Pound Characters
When the extent of your code is just printing static lines of text, the value of a comment is not obvious, 
however, when you start doing anything more complex than that they become invaluable. The study drills just have 
you think about your answers to the Lesson 1 drills and then introduce some basic troubleshooting techniques.

My Lesson 2 code can be found here: [https://github.com/skyrydberg/LPTHW/tree/master/ex2](https://github.com/skyrydberg/LPTHW/tree/master/ex2)